
COMMODITIES MARKET : Commodities are split into two types: hard and soft commodities. 
                     Hard commodities are typically natural resources that must be mined or extracted (such as gold, rubber and oil), whereas soft commodities are agricultural products or livestock (such as corn, wheat, coffee, sugar, soybeans and pork).
	              
                     Modern commodity markets trade many types of investment vehicles, and are often utilized by various investors from commodity producers to investment speculators.
                     There are numerous ways to invest in commodities. An investor can purchase stock in corporations whose business relies on commodities prices, or purchase mutual funds, index funds or exchange-traded funds (ETFs) that have a focus on commodities-related companies. 
                     The most direct way of investing in commodities is by buying into a futures contract. 
                     A futures contract obligates the holder to buy or sell a commodity at a predetermined price on a delivery date in the future.


Futures Contract: A futures contract is a contract between two parties where both parties agree to buy and sell a particular asset of specific quantity and at a predetermined price, at a specified date in future.


Continuous Futures Contract: A continuous futures contract is not exactly a futures contract. 
                             Instead, it is several futures contracts that have been spliced together to create a long-term chart. 
                             There is often a data adjustment involved in this splicing to eliminate gaps and create a smooth price series. 
                             These gaps stem from the time premium between futures contracts.
                             This means there will be a price gap between the expiring futures contract and the next futures contract. 
                             A continuous futures contract adjusts for these gaps and time differences to create an artificial price series.


HOW IT WORKS:  Buyers and sellers can trade a commodity either in the spot market (sometimes called the cash market), whereby the buyer and seller immediately complete their transaction based on current prices, or in the futures market.
               The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) regulates commodities futures trading through its enforcement of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1974 and the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000. The CFTC works to ensure the competitiveness, efficiency and integrity of the commodities futures markets and protects against manipulation, abusive trading and fraud.
               Commodities exchanges do not set the prices of the traded commodities. Rather, supply and demand determines commodities prices.Exchange members, who act on behalf of their customers or themselves, engage in open-outcry auctions in pits on the exchange floors. During an open-outcry auction, buyers and sellers announce their bids and offers. When two parties agree on a price, the trade is recorded both manually and electronically. The exchange then disseminates the price information to news services and other reporting agencies around the world.
               

DATA INFORMATION OF THESIS

The data source of our thesis is https://www.quandl.com/collections/markets/commodities.

We have two different commodities: Coffee C Futures, Continuous Contract #1 (KC1) (Front Month) and 
                                   Sugar No. 11 Futures, Continuous Contract #1 (SB1) (Front Month). 

Their references are: https://www.quandl.com/data/CHRIS/ICE_KC1-Coffee-C-Futures-Continuous-Contract-1-KC1-Front-Month
                      https://www.quandl.com/data/CHRIS/ICE_SB1-Sugar-No-11-Futures-Continuous-Contract-1-SB1-Front-Month

The datas entered on a monthly basis. 
The datasets includes 12 columns which are;

Date: Date that the data belongs.

Opening Price: The opening price is the price at which a security first trades upon the opening of an exchange on a given trading day.The price of the first trade for any listed stock is its daily opening price.

Settlement Price: Settlement price refers to the market price of a derivatives contract at the close of a trading day.Also called the closing price, the settlement price is the price at which a derivatives contract settles once a given trading day has ended. It is also the market price at which a given contract begins trading at the opening of the next business day. It is commonly determined by the price of the final trade prior to the closing bell or by averaging the spot price in the final minutes of a trading session.

Highest Price : The highest value of the month.

Lowest Price: The lowest value of the month.

Price Change: A price change is the difference in the cost of an asset or security from one period to another.

Wave:  Elliott Wave Theory is a method of market analysis that is based on the idea that the market forms the same types of patterns on a smaller timeframe (lesser degree) that it does on a longer timeframe (higher degree) and that these patterns provide clues as to what might happen next in the market. According to the theory, it does not depend on what timeframe you are analyzing; market movements follow the same types of patterns.

Open Interest: Also called the closing price, the settlement price is the price at which a derivatives contract settles once a given trading day has ended. It is also the market price at which a given contract begins trading at the opening of the next business day. It is commonly determined by the price of the final trade prior to the closing bell or by averaging the spot price in the final minutes of a trading session.  

EFP Volume

EFS Volume 

Block Volume 


The Coffee C Futures dataset includes 532 rows.
The Sugar No. 11 Futures dataset includes 683 rows. 

  